---
id: 3607
title: Year in Review 2012, Goals for 2013
date: 2012-12-29T20:15:33+00:00
author: Peter Backx
layout: post
guid: http://www.streamhead.com/?p=3607
permalink: /year-review-2012-goals-2013/
pdrp_attributionLocation:
  - end
image: /wp-content/uploads/2012/12/christmas_time.jpg
categories:
  - On Streamhead
---
Another year has (almost) passed. It was a very exiting year, in which I threw a lot against the wall to see what would stick. I also managed to implement most of my 2012 goals, although, in hindsight, they were a little too vague.

<!--more-->

## 2012

[Lets go over the goals and plans mentioned in my last review post](http://www.streamhead.com/review-and-preview-2012/):

  * **eLance**: I&#8217;ve grown extremely tired of the way things work on this type of outsourcing sites. While I will keep helping out my existing customers, I don&#8217;t plan on picking up any new ones.
  * **Java**, for me, is a language very quickly moving towards &#8220;COBOL status&#8221;. Development in Java is slow with an incredible amount of overhead. For no good reason. I did pick up **Groovy** this year and I&#8217;m loving it. While it&#8217;s not perfect, I feel it&#8217;s a good compromise.
  * After some more **PHP** work, I realized it&#8217;s just not for me. The language is a mix of ideas, seemingly randomly thrown together. No matter what I try, I can&#8217;t really get used to it. Furthermore, due to the sheer number of PHP developers available, the job market itself is such a mess, where the lowest bidder wins, but you eventually end up cleaning up after him.
  * **JavaScript** was the real eye-opener for me this year. Although I haven&#8217;t written too much about it, I&#8217;ve done a lot of Node.JS development last year and I still like it. Yes, you need to properly manage callbacks so they don&#8217;t turn your code into a mess. But the system works. Node.JS development forces you to think about issues that other languages try to hide (and they really shouldn&#8217;t).
  * I&#8217;ve continued, with mixed success, to market some of my websites. More on that in my 2013 goals.

## 2013

So what&#8217;s in store for 2013? In all honesty, I&#8217;m not sure because I have no idea how much time I&#8217;ll have for development work.

In any case, I want to work on just a few, but larger projects. Here&#8217;s what I&#8217;d like to do:

  * Jump into the &#8220;Big Data&#8221; waters. I&#8217;ve previously worked with SOLR, but that was just the start.
  * Increase revenue for [my Vaadin application](http://www.streamhead.com/launching-my-first-vaadin-appengine-project/). I only plan to do major development if and when I hit my revenue goals. If I do, I&#8217;d love to move the entire app to a more modern language (Gradle instead of Maven, Groovy instead of Java)
  * Improve [my Android app](http://www.streamhead.com/discogs-scan/) and possibly build another one. I have a big idea-file waiting for me, so I will first need to prioritize.
  * Ideally, I want to do at least one major Node.JS project, but I&#8217;m not sure if I&#8217;ll be able to fit that into my schedule.

Enjoy the new year.

<!-- AddThis Advanced Settings generic via filter on the_content -->

<!-- AddThis Share Buttons generic via filter on the_content -->